# Kick-off Meeting for RAP peer-review project

## Actions

Decided at the end of the meeting.

* Alex - set up Slack channel
* Luke - Doodle poll for monthly meetings
* Luke - set-up GitHub
* Steve - draft survey (for Aim 1 & 2), including question for those willing to be interviewed as part of it
* Warwick - look further into making his example repo public (for Aim 3)
* David - become clear with the ROpenSci process, ahead of being involved carrying out the demo (for Aim 3)
* Warwick - chair next meeting

## Group Aim

The aim of this group is to:
1.	Estimate the demand for a peer review scheme for RAP,
2.	to find out or estimate how many people are willing to participate in such a scheme and how much time they would be able to commit,
3.	and to run and evaluate a demonstration peer review using an established process such as [ROpenSci's process](https://devguide.ropensci.org/policies.html);
   *	if the demonstration peer review is found to be successful then to make recommendations for how the overall scheme might operate.
   *	If it is not successful then it might be useful to make recommendations on why this was.
## Attendees

(Facilitator)
Alex
Best Practice & Impact Division in ONS. Facilitator of Task & Finish Group

Steve
Steve, Data Scientist PHE, Automation of processes, R packages

Paul

David
At start of RAP journey, in VOA

Warwick
Role is to help spread capability across CQC

(Chair)
Luke
Statistician in DfE, not linked to RAP currently

## Relevant Resources

Not an exhaustive list

[ROpenSci's process](https://devguide.ropensci.org/policies.html)

[Duncan's GDS blog](https://dataingovernment.blog.gov.uk/2018/04/10/peer-reviewing-software-for-data-analysis/)

[RAP website](https://ukgovdatascience.github.io/rap-website/)

## Definitions

*Task and Finish Group*:
A group that comes together around a specific task and disbands once the task is finished.

*Steering Group*:


*RAP Champions Network*:
Cross-government network working on RAP organised by the GSS

## 1 Estimate the demand

- Within organisation
- Across the RAP Champions Network

Difficulties - what are the prerequisites?
- is it shareable across organisation?
- what is the capability within the organisation?
- depends on the level of RAP (ie is it a RMD file or is it a package)

How are we going to do it?
Qualitative analysis?  

## 2 People's commitments to scheme

Different organisations will contribute products/review capability in various amounts
Helping people develop the ability to see how other organisations are doing it, and what's going on.
Taking on the role of a na√Øve user

Idea - short embeddings within other departments? Workaround for security issues, but is resource intensive.

# 3 Demo

Steve - Peer Review checklist in PHE
Warwick - potential project to be the trial for our peer review
Alex - potential MoD and MoJ packages

Need to use something that is established (ie ROpenSci) as opposed to creating a new one

# Timeline

Some update on progress on RAP Champions Network April 15. Aim to have the group's aims completed by then, but isn't a hard deadline.
